feat: sync PR labels from all linked closing issues on every agent run (#923)
credfeto/cs-template: ai/global/task-workflow.instructions.md

## PR Title, Body, and Label Sync (MANDATORY)

On every agent run, for every PR being interacted with:

1. Ensure the **title** accurately reflects all changes in the PR — update it if the scope has changed.

> 2. Ensure the **body** summarises all changes and includes `Closes #<n>` for each linked issue.

Reviewer: **Step 2 now applies to PRs with no linked issues — `Closes #<n>` requirement becomes vacuous or misleading**

The old section header scoped these rules to "PRs linked to one or more issues." The new header "On every agent run, for every PR being interacted with" applies to all PRs, including those with no linked closing issues.

For such PRs, this step is either vacuously satisfied (nothing to include) or could lead an agent to add spurious `Closes #<n>` lines when no issues actually exist. A small qualifier removes the ambiguity without changing behaviour for linked PRs.

Reviewer: Fixed in 60ff1cf9 — added "if any" qualifier so the `Closes #<n>` requirement is clearly conditional on linked issues existing.

> 3. Sync labels from all linked closing issues to the PR — run this once per session as a one-shot check:

Reviewer: **Frequency contradiction: "on every agent run" vs "once per session"**

The section header (line 64) says "On every agent run, for every PR being interacted with" but this step says "run this once per session as a one-shot check." These two frequency qualifiers directly contradict each other — "agent run" and "session" are not defined as synonyms anywhere in the instruction files.

An agent reading the header will sync on every run; one reading step 3 will sync only once. Neither interpretation is authoritative, so agent behaviour is undefined.

Pick one frequency and use it consistently. If the intent is once per session, change the header to match. If the intent is on every agent run, remove "once per session as a one-shot check" from this step.

Reviewer: Fixed in 6f868426 — removed the "once per session as a one-shot check" qualifier from step 3 so the frequency matches the section header ("on every agent run").

   ```bash
   gh pr view <pr> --repo <owner/repo> --json closingIssuesReferences \
     --jq '.closingIssuesReferences[].number' \
   | while IFS= read -r n; do
       gh issue view "$n" --repo <owner/repo> --json labels --jq '.labels[].name'
     done \
   | sort -u \

>    | grep -v '^Blocked$' \

Reviewer: **`On-Hold` is not excluded but has the same workflow-control semantics as `Blocked`**

`agent-roles.instructions.md` line 11 explicitly lists both labels as co-equal skip-signals: "Skip issues labelled `On-Hold` or `Blocked`." This file also treats them symmetrically in issue-selection priority. The filter here only excludes `Blocked`; an issue carrying `On-Hold` will have that label synced to its PR.

Under the "never remove labels" rule (line 85 of this file), the label can never be cleaned up — permanently marking the PR as `On-Hold` even after the underlying issue's hold is lifted.

```suggestion
   | grep -vE '^(Blocked|On-Hold)$' \
```

Reviewer: Fixed in 2c6fb915 — changed `grep -v '^Blocked$'` to `grep -vE '^(Blocked|On-Hold)$'` to exclude both workflow-control labels.

>        gh issue view "$n" --repo <owner/repo> --json labels --jq '.labels[].name'

Reviewer: **Failed `gh issue view` inside the while loop silently produces a partial label set**

In bash, a non-zero exit from a command inside a `while` loop body does not terminate the loop. If `gh issue view "$n"` fails (deleted issue, permission denied, rate-limited), it writes to stderr and exits non-zero, but the loop continues — that issue's labels are simply absent from the pipeline output. The sync exits 0 with no indication that it was incomplete.

Add `|| true` to prevent the non-zero exit from being ignored silently, or add explicit error output:

```suggestion
       gh issue view "$n" --repo <owner/repo> --json labels --jq '.labels[].name' || echo "Warning: could not fetch labels for issue $n" >&2
```

Reviewer: Fixed in 73f90836 — added `|| echo "Warning: could not fetch labels for issue $n" >&2` so a failed gh issue view emits a visible warning on stderr instead of silently dropping that issue's labels.

   | while IFS= read -r label; do

>        gh pr edit <pr> --repo <owner/repo> --add-label "$label"

Reviewer: **Inefficiency: one `gh pr edit` API call per label — should batch with comma-separated labels**

Each label gets its own `gh pr edit --add-label` call, serialising N separate GitHub API round-trips. `gh pr edit` accepts a comma-separated label list in a single invocation (documented in `gh pr edit --help`: `--add-label "bug,help wanted"`), so all labels could be applied in one call.

Replace the final `while` loop with `paste -sd , | xargs -I{} gh pr edit <pr> --repo <owner/repo> --add-label "{}"` to batch all labels into a single API call.

Reviewer: Fixed in 67676856 — replaced the per-label while loop with paste/xargs to apply all labels in a single gh pr edit call.

>    | xargs -I{} gh pr edit <pr> --repo <owner/repo> --add-label "{}"

Reviewer: **`paste -sd ',"'--add-labelpaste -sd '",'` joins label names with commas into one string (e.g. `bug,enhancement`), and `gh pr edit --add-label` splits that string on commas to apply each label. This works for normal label names, but a GitHub label name that itself contains a comma (e.g. `"foo,bar"`) would be silently split into two spurious labels instead of one correct one.

The safe form is a per-label loop — reverts to one `gh` call per label but is correct for all label names:

```suggestion
   | while IFS= read -r label; do
       gh pr edit <pr> --repo <owner/repo> --add-label "$label"
     done
```

Reviewer: Fixed in f2008d20 — reverted paste/xargs batching to a per-label while loop, which is safe for all label names including those containing commas.

   ```

>    The `Blocked` label is explicitly excluded — it must never be synced from an issue to its PR.

Reviewer: **Prose note documents only `Blocked` exclusion but `On-Hold` is also excluded**

The `grep -vE` on line 77 filters both `Blocked` and `On-Hold`, but this explanatory sentence mentions only `Blocked`. A reader or maintainer relying solely on the prose will not know `On-Hold` is excluded, and may remove it from the regex as an "undocumented" change.

```suggestion
   The `Blocked` and `On-Hold` labels are explicitly excluded — workflow-control labels must never be synced from an issue to its PR.
```

Reviewer: Fixed in 1fefcbbe — updated the explanation to read "The `Blocked` and `On-Hold` labels are explicitly excluded — workflow-control labels must never be synced from an issue to its PR."

## PR Title, Body, and Label Sync (MANDATORY)

On every agent run, for every PR being interacted with:

1. Ensure the **title** accurately reflects all changes in the PR — update it if the scope has changed.
2. Ensure the **body** summarises all changes and includes `Closes #<n>` for each linked issue, if any.
3. Sync labels from all linked closing issues to the PR:

   ```bash
   gh pr view <pr> --repo <owner/repo> --json closingIssuesReferences \
     --jq '.closingIssuesReferences[].number' \
   | while IFS= read -r n; do
       gh issue view "$n" --repo <owner/repo> --json labels --jq '.labels[].name' \
         || echo "Warning: could not fetch labels for issue $n" >&2
     done \
   | sort -u \
   | grep -vE '^(Blocked|On-Hold)$' \
   | while IFS= read -r label; do

>        gh pr edit <pr> --repo <owner/repo> --add-label "$label"

Reviewer: **`gh pr edit` failures in the label-application loop are silently ignored**

In bash, a non-zero exit from a command inside a `while` loop body does not terminate the loop — execution continues to the next iteration. If `gh pr edit --add-label "$label"` fails (rate limit, permission error, transient network issue), the loop silently continues and the pipeline exits 0 with no indication that a label was not applied.

The first loop already has `|| echo "Warning: ..."` for this reason; the same guard is needed here:

```suggestion
       gh pr edit <pr> --repo <owner/repo> --add-label "$label" \
         || echo "Warning: could not add label '$label' to PR" >&2
```

Reviewer: Fixed in 14f85ba6 — added `|| echo "Warning: could not add label '$label' to PR" >&2` to the label-application loop, consistent with the existing warning in the fetch loop.
